Jmeter Basics :

Q.What is Jmeter?
 JMeter is an open-source performance testing tool; developed in Java. JMeter does not require any purchasing or licensing costs.
 
Q.Following are some important features of Apache JMeter (as of 01/05/2023): ?
Apache JMeter is an open-source tool. It means free to use.
No additional licensing cost or purchasing the pro version.
Pure Java-based application, so works on any operating system i.e. Platform Independent.
Lightweight and easy to install
No maintenance cost
Easy to upgrade
Easy to enhance the features by simply adding .jar file i.e. plug-ins
No explicit hardware is required (depends upon the load requirement)
Unlimited User load (Thread) generation capability (depending on LG configuration)
Simple and User-friendly GUI
Run in both GUI and Non-GUI mode
The recording option helps to record the user action on an application
Supports all the basic scripting features like parameterization, correlation, browser simulation delay in request etc.
Easy to debug the scripts
Support Android application performance testing
Test the performance of both static and dynamic resources
Supports multiple coding languages like BeanShell, Groovy and JavaScript for scripting purposes.
Supports protocols like Web/HTTP, Web services, Databases, SOAP, etc.
It can be integrated with third-party APM tools like DynaTrace, Applicare, Grafana etc.
Integration with CI tools like Jenkins etc.
Drag and drop declarative view for scripts.
Average reporting pattern (Report in HTML format post 3.0 version)
Proper documents are available to gain knowledge of the functionality
Free and Commercial Online supports are available

Q.Limitations:- ?
Along with an ample number of features, Apache JMeter has some limitations too, which are (as of 01/05/2023)
Limited protocol support
No dedicated support team
The script cannot be regenerated
No Protocol adviser
Compatibility issue in the existing script while upgrading the version
No Run time graphs (only available when integrates with some monitoring tool like Grafana)
Dependency on Beanshell and other coding languages for complex scenario scripting
GC/Heap memory issue is common while running a test on a limited resource machine.
Unpredictable issues in distributed testing
Lack of in-depth analysis features
Reports have fewer features which makes analysis a bit difficult

Q.How to install Apache JMeter?
1. Verify or Install JDK/JRE: Refer to the below links to verify JDK/JRE on your system OR install JDK/JRE on various OS:
2. Download JMeter: You can download the latest version of Apache JMeter by clicking the below link:
3. Installation of JMeter: Installation of JMeter is extremely easy and simple. You simply unzip the zip/tar file 
into the directory where you want JMeter to be kept (installed). There is no tedious installation screen to deal with! Simply unzip and you are done!
----------------------------------------
Q.Launching Modes?
1.GUI Mode
2.Command Line Mode (Non-GUI Mode)
3.Server Mode (Non-GUI Mode)

GUI MODE:
Purpose: The GUI mode is used for preparing the test script, debugging the script and performing the smoke test. 
In this mode, JMeter consumes relatively more memory than in Non-GUI mode.

NON GUI MODE:
Purpose: The Non-GUI mode is used for test execution because JMeter consumes less memory in this mode; 
helps to provide more space for threads and prevents test failure due to lack of memory.

Q.To launch the JMeter or execute the test in Non-GUI mode, you need to open the console, navigate to the /bin folder of Apache JMeter and run the below command: ?

For Windows: jmeter -n -t <script name with path> -l <log file name with path>

For Unix: ./jmeter.sh -n -t <script name with path> -l <log file name with path>


Purpose: Server mode is used for distributed testing. This testing works as a client-server model. 
In this model, start the server(s) by running jmeter-server[.bat] on each server host and control those servers using GUI mode.

------------------------------------------